Pipeline Execution Service (#28)
HumanCellAtlas/dcp-community: charters/PipelineExecutionService/charter.md

# [Pipeline Execution Service](mailto:pipelines-team@data.humancellatlas.org)

## Description

The Pipeline Execution Service executes data processing pipelines containing analysis tasks performed on scientific data in the Data Coordination Platform (DCP). The outputs of these pipelines are used for scientific analysis and interpretation.  

## Objectives

The Pipeline Execution Service runs pipelines reliably and at-scale for the DCP. The team implementing the service also operates the pipeline infrastructure for the Human Cell Atlas project. 

## Definitions

> __pipeline:__ A collection of one or more functional tasks that operate on input data and, from that, make an output that is transformed input data, or derive features often used to interpret the input data. In a high throughput setting, these tasks are often automated to be performed in a batch setting.

Reviewer: One suggestion on wording: I think changing "make an output that is transformed input data" to "transform the input data" makes this sentence easier to understand

Author: added

## In-scope

### Operations

> * Operating the instance of the HCA DCP Data Processing Service

Reviewer 2: not sure: `Data Processing Service` -> `Pipeline Execution Service` (consequences of changing a title 😄 )

Author: nice catch

* Initiation and management of the execution of all data processing pipelines that run on scientific data in the HCA DCP  

> * Establishing and operating automated practices around engineering testing of pipelines executed in the HCA DCP Data Processing Service   

Reviewer 2: same, `Pipeline Execution Service`

Author: nice catch, sorry

### Documentation

* Creating and outputting metadata on the operations applied to the data in accordance with the HCA DCP Metadata Schema  

> * Documentation on the Data Processing Service and guides on using the service  

Reviewer 2: Same, `Data Processing Service` -> `Pipeline Execution Service`

Author: got it

> * Creating documentation and scripting around the deployment of the Data Processing Service

Reviewer 2: `Data Processing Service` -> `Pipeline Execution Service`

Author: thanks!

## Milestones and Deliverables

> __2018:__ Create operational and secure infrastructure, add ability to throttle and queue  

Reviewer 2: optional: ability to throttle and queue the executions of data processing pipelines/workflows

Author: added

__2019:__ Add ability to reanalyze data, notification filtering to save costs, improve testing, logging, and deployment  
__2020:__ Generalized and reusable service infrastructure  

## Roles

### Project Lead

[Timothy Tickle](mailto:ttickle@broadinstitute.org)  

### Product Owner

[Janki Kaneria](mailto:jkaneria@broadinstitute.org)  

### Technical Lead

[Saman Ehsan](mailto:sehsan@broadinstitute.org)  
[Rex Wang](mailto:chengche@broadinstitute.org)  

## Communication

Team email: pipelines-team@data.humancellatlas.org 
 
[HumanCellAtlas/data-pipelines-team](https://humancellatlas.slack.com/messages/data-pipelines-team): team discussions, a place to directly communicate to the team that works on the service and pipelines  
[HumanCellAtlas/data-pipelines-ci](https://humancellatlas.slack.com/messages/data-pipelines-ci): Data Processing Service continuous integration status  

## Github repositories

> [Cromwell Tools](https://github.com/broadinstitute/cromwell-tools): Tools (Python API) for working with the [Cromwell workflow engine](https://github.com/broadinstitute/cromwell) - a scientific workflow engine designed for simplicity and scalability  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Cromwell Tools](https://github.com/broadinstitute/cromwell-tools): A collection of Python clients and accessory scripts for interacting with the [Cromwell workflow execution engine](https://github.com/broadinstitute/cromwell) - a scientific workflow engine designed for simplicity and scalability  
```

Author: Updated to your language.

Reviewer 2: Thanks

[Falcon](https://github.com/HumanCellAtlas/falcon): Queueing system that (after launching) throttles and inititates workflows  
[Lira](https://github.com/HumanCellAtlas/lira): Listens to storage service notifications and launches workflows  
[Pipeline Tools](https://github.com/HumanCellAtlas/pipeline-tools): Contains Data Coordination Platform adapter pipelines and associated tools  

> [Secondary Analysis](https://github.com/HumanCellAtlas/secondary-analysis): Integration test scripts and other automation for the Pipeline Execution Service (contains all tickets for the prioritized work for the implementation team)  

Reviewer: In addition to the repositories listed here, we recently added the [Secondary Analysis Deploy](https://github.com/HumanCellAtlas/secondary-analysis-deploy) repository that contains the deployment configuration and scripts for the Pipeline Execution Service

Author: added

> # [Pipeline Execution Service](mailto:pipelines-team@data.humancellatlas.org)

Reviewer 2: Could you please also update the title of this PR to reflect this change?

Author: Done

Reviewer 2: Thanks!

[Team email](mailto:pipelines-team@data.humancellatlas.org): pipelines-team@data.humancellatlas.org 
 
[HumanCellAtlas/data-pipelines-team](https://humancellatlas.slack.com/messages/data-pipelines-team): team discussions, a place to directly communicate to the team that works on the service and pipelines  

> [HumanCellAtlas/data-pipelines-ci](https://humancellatlas.slack.com/messages/data-pipelines-ci): Data Processing Service continuous integration status  

Reviewer 2: `Data Processing Service` -> `Pipeline Execution Service` or explicitly indicating that this channel will cover both data pipelines tests and execution infra tests

Author: I added language to hopefully make it clear the channel is for both if you want them separate that is fine as well, just let me know.

Reviewer 2: Keeping it together makes more sense to me, thanks!
